# Home-automation
Home automation is a new buzz now a day...there are so many open source hardware available to build your own home automation. By the virtue of blooming automation industry and wireless connectivity, all the devices within the home can be connected. This improves the comfort, energy, efficiency, indoor security, etc...of the home. We need a low power device that transmits messages through a less verbose protocol. Owing to the ubiquitous availability of WIFI, all the appliances within the home can be connected through a common gateway. This paper presents an overview of a light weight Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) protocol. In the prototype, we attempt to implement MQTT, a WIFI based development board. MQTT is most widely used protocol in the area of information communication technology and digital things forcing to the formation of IoT (internet of things). MQTT is light weight and known for its bandwidth efficiency.MQTT enables resource-constrained IoT devices to send, or publish the information about a given topic to a server. MQTT requires two main software components: 1. MQTT client 2. MQTT broker to publish and send the data. MQTT is known as a topic that serves as filter for broker in sending messages to every client. Small and constrained embedded devices are used to remotely monitor the conditions within home and control the home appliances. In such a case, power consumption and networking bandwidth become a major concern. So we use some of the protocols like MQTT to make our lives easier.
